---
layout: post
title: GSoC Task 6 -- Edit Only mode for ModelFormset
image_show_on_page: false
image: assets/images/blog/gsoc/task.jpg
published: true
category: gsoc
description: This enables the formsets to be used as a tool to modify multiple models at once without affecting the other models.
---

## About the task

There was no right way in which we can use `ModelFormset` for just editing a set of models without creating or affecting any other model. Few workarounds were present, but none produces the desired behavior.
For e.g. one can argue that setting `extra_form = 0` , `max_num = 0` & `validate_max = True` will work. But if by some way the `POST` request is edited, and a different `pk` value that doesn't appear in the queryset is sent, it will create a new model object, which is not desirable.


## What I did ??

So this issue was solved by adding an extra parameter `edit_only` in the `BaseModelFormSet` class. This disabled the call to `save_new_objects()` method, thus ensuring no new object is created. And also one can now pass a list of pk values to the `BaseFormSet` while creating an object of formset so that only the pk values from that list can be edited, thus acting as a security feature so that no one can edit the POST request and affect the database.

This was a pretty straight-forward task and didn't take me more than a week to complete this. And after doing development in Django for more than two months, this was done in a blink of an eye :).

## Technical description of the task

The problem Statement from a technical point of view was simple enough. Just add an extra check before creating a new model. If that parameter is set, don't create any new models.

Here is the snippet of code which I added:
```python
def save(self, commit=True):
    """
    Save model instances for every form, adding and changing instances
    as necessary and return the list of instances.
    """
    if not commit:
        self.saved_forms = []

        def save_m2m():
            for form in self.saved_forms:
                form.save_m2m()
        self.save_m2m = save_m2m
    if not self.edit_only:
        return self.save_existing_objects(commit) + self.save_new_objects(commit)
    else:
        return self.save_existing_objects(commit)
```

Notice how the `edit_only` parameter blocks the new objects from being created.

## References

Ticket -- [#26142](https://code.djangoproject.com/ticket/26142) \\
PR -- [#11580](https://github.com/django/django/pull/11580)
